Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about operator precedence.
See we have an expression here
20 + 10 * 10 /2
Now How do we evaluate this expression? Will you perform the
operations from left to Right And exactly in that order? If
that is the case, we will perform 20+10 first
and we get 30 then perform 30*10
That is 300. then 300 /2  and we
get 150 But is it the right method? What
we got here, 150 is not the result of
this expression
So this method is not right Because we have to
take the priority of each operator into consideration while we
evaluate an expression. so let us see How it actually works
We have the same expression 20 + 10 * 10 /2
So first we have addition Then we have multiplication
And then we have division
So comparatively addition is of smaller priority and multiplication and
division have the same priority which is greater than addition
So what we do here is we
Consider Associativity since we have same priority
So here we have left to right order. So take multiplication
First. so perform 10*10
Then we get 100
And now between addition and division, clearly we need to
perform division first
So perform 100/2
We get 50 now perform Addition 20 + 50 we
get 70
So that is the result of this expression.
So this is the precedence order of operators. the highest
precedence is for parantheses.
After that multiplication and division have the same
precedence.
And then we have addition subtraction having the same precedence
So let's see some examples
We have 5 + 4 *3 So here between
addition and multiplication, multiplication has higher precedence so perform
4*3 First and we get 12 and now perform
5+12 which is 17
So what if we need to calculate 5+4
first and then perform multiplication In that case we
can use () is as it has higher precedence
So now 5+4 gets calculated first and then multiplication
is performed and we get 27 as the result
So what will happen if operators are with same precedence.
See here we have multiplication and division which are of
same precedence in such case we need to apply associativity.
for parantheses
it is from left to right for multiplication
and division
Also it is left to right and for addition and
subtraction
Also it is left to right
So here we go from left to right
So perform multiplication first
So we get 10*3=30
Now we have to perform division operation and we get
30 /2= 15
So that is how it is done
So that's all and thank you watching this video.